In this tutorial, we will add a cosmetic thing: we will make our pickup rotate around the z-axis.
The rotation angle will be calculated randomly, this will happen at the start of the game and also every time
we pick up the pickup. Let's create an additional variable in the private section and call it RotationYaw.
It will store the angle by which we want to rotate our pickup
and will also create an additional function, which we will call GenerateRotationYaw. The name speaks
for itself - this function will calculate the angle we need.
Go to the .cpp file.
We define the function.
The rotation angle will be added every frame, so go to the Tick function. The actor function that
can change the rotation is called AddActorLocalRotation, or AddActorWorldRotation.
In our situation, it makes absolutely no difference which function we will use.
Both of these functions in the case of our simplest object will solve the same problem.
Pass the FRotator function as a parameter. All angles, except for yaw, are zero, and directly
to yaw we pass the RotationYaw variable, which we now have to calculate.
Each Tick will call this function and the object will
rotate uniformly by the RotationYaw. We call the GenerateRotationYaw function on BeginPlay
and also add a call to this function at the moment when we respawn.
Thus, there will be a little variation. Each time we pick up the pickup, the rotation angle will change.
And we just need to implement the GenerateRotationYaw function. Let's go into it.
In this function, we need to calculate the value of the RotationYaw variable.
The random number generation function is in the FMath class. We'll use a function called RandRange.
This function returns a random number from a segment, the extreme points of which we pass as parameters.
We will not create additional variables for these numbers, add them to the blueprint, because
this is a rather minor thing. And let's create an additional variable called Direction.
She will be responsible for the direction of rotation. The variable must be 1 or -1.
To do this, we just need to generate a random boolean value. The corresponding function to generate is called RandBool.
If this function returned true, then we assign the variable the value 1, and if false, then -1
We could generate RotationYaw from the segment, for example, from -1 to 1,
but then our variable can be assigned 0 and our pickup will not move.
We start the game.
Pickups started spinning: one clockwise, the other counterclockwise. We were so lucky.
Direction was generated differently for the given two pickups. If we press shift + f1 and after
that the eject button in the interface, then the controller no longer controls the character, we can safely
move around the scene. If you select pickup, you can observe how the local rotation changes.
Also in the interface there is a cube that can show the axes in world coordinates.
We see that they are not moving. And you can also press it again and the axes will start to rotate.